# YearSummary
This year in IOS I learned a lot. At first, I was a bit rusty because last year was the last time I had used Xcode. I started on a couple of small projects to refamiliarize myself with Xcode. At first, it was just moving sprites around on the screen, but eventually, I started working on a pool game. While working on the pool game I learned about SKActions to make the balls disappear when the went into the holes. After I felt I had learned everything I could from the pool game I moved on to making an air hockey game. While making the air hockey game I ran into a couple of issues. The first of which was the movement of the hitters. The way I had been moving the sprites in the past was to set the position of the sprites to the location of the touch. However, when you just set the position of the sprite it doesn't carry any momentum, so the puck would just stop when It got hit by the hitters. To fix it I assigned velocity to the hitter based on the difference in locations between the hitter and where the touch was. Another issue I faced was detecting the contact between the puck and the nets. I solved it by learning about contact delegates. I assigned different contact bitmasks to different goals. Whenever two sprites collided I would check if the contact bitmasks of the sprites were equal to the contact bitmasks of one of the goals and the puck, if they were I would assign a point to one of the players according to which goal was scored on. After I finished my air hockey app we began our group projects. At first, my group wasted a lot of time trying to decide on what kind of app we should make. It was really hard for us to communicate with each other because we were all on quarantine and couldn't talk to each other face to face anymore. Eventually, we decided on trying to make a really big card game. However, after trying to start creating the game we realized that we bit off more than we could chew. After some more brainstorming, we came up with the idea of Corona Maps. It was an app that would show you the location of people around you and send you a notification if you were within 6 feet of another person to help people social distance. First, I researched how to get and display the user's location on the phone. After I found how to add annotations to the map with the idea that each annotation was another person's location. After, I tried to get the user's trade locations through Bluetooth and multipeer connectivity. However, when I was testing getting the devices connected I didn't have enough phones on a low enough IOS to install the app and I couldn't update Xcode because I needed the admin password. Whenever I tried to connect my phone to the simulator the app would say connection declined. Instead, we tried to have the phones receive and pass locations through a database. We tried to get the app to connect to the Fire Store databases, but we needed to install some frameworks to access it. We found a video that recommended that you install the frameworks using CocoaPods, so during our next class meeting I asked Mrs. Nelson about contacting tech support and found out another group had gotten CocoaPods from tech support and they sent me his contact information. After emailing him I was able to get CocoaPods set up for my entire group. After we got CocoaPods setup I was able to get my phone to connect to Firebase, but when I tried to get Fire Store setup we had an outdated version, so one of the libraries wouldn't compile and would crash the app. After some research, I determined that I wouldn't be able to update it without the admin password and wouldn't be worth doing anymore because it would take too long to email back and forth with the tech person and decided to end the project. Even though my group was unable to have a completed final project I was still happy with what I learned during the process. First,  I learned a lot about map kit. Secondly, I learned a little bit about CocoaPods and Firebase. Finally, I learned about what it takes to manage a team and how to try to get everyone on the same page and able to work together.
